4.5 release page (#1138)
godotengine/godot-website: collections/_release_4_5/entry-systems-rendering-specular-occlusion-from-ambient-light.md

---
type: entry
section: systems
subsection: rendering
rank: 0
importance: 2
anchor: specular-occlusion-from-ambient-light
title: Specular occlusion from ambient light
blockquote: Added realism for cheap
text: |
  Ever wondered why some objects would eerily shine as if they were lit in an occluded area where they shouldn’t? For example, a common stumbling block for users is seeing light from the sky get reflected in the cracks between bricks in a brick wall.

>   That's because the calculation of the light reflected off a surface didn't take ambient occlusion into account.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  That’s because the calculation of the light reflected off a surface didn’t take ambient occlusion into account.
```

---
type: entry
section: systems
subsection: rendering
rank: 0
importance: 2
anchor: specular-occlusion-from-ambient-light
title: Specular occlusion from ambient light
blockquote: Added realism for cheap
text: |

>   Ever wondered why some objects would eerily shine as if they were lit in an occluded area where they shouldn't?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Ever wondered why some objects would eerily shine as if they were lit in an occluded area where they shouldn’t?
```

>   Ever wondered why some objects would eerily shine as if they were lit in an occluded area where they shouldn't?

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  Ever wondered why some objects would eerily shine as if they were lit in an occluded area where they shouldn't? For example, a common stumbling block for users is seeing light from the sky get reflected in the cracks between bricks in a brick wall.
```

>   That's because the calculation of the exposition doesn't take into account ambient light and other parameters.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  That’s because the calculation of the exposition doesn’t take ambient light and other parameters into account.
```

>   That's because the calculation of the exposition doesn't take into account ambient light and other parameters.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  That's because the calculation of the light reflected off a surface didn't take ambient occlusion into account.
```

>   Fortunately, our renderer has now a cheap option for specular occlusion that should fix this issue.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Fortunately, our renderer now has a cheap option for specular occlusion that should fix this issue.
```

>   For existing projects where it could break the look, don't fret. A toggle is available in the project settings

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  For existing projects where it could break the look, don’t fret. A toggle is available in the project settings.
```

>   For existing projects where it could break the look, don't fret. A toggle is available in the project settings

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  For existing projects where it could break the look, don't fret. A toggle is available in the project settings.
```
